# Description
The electron Impact Excitation of Ions from Organics (EIEIO) annotation tool is an untargeted liquid chromatography-EIEIO tandem mass spectrometry (LC-EIEIO-MS/MS) data processing tool for in-depth analysis of lipid structure. This tool can accurately annotate the sum composition, _sn_-position, and C=C position of multiclass lipids such as lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC), phosphatidylcholine (PC), phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), sphingomyelin (SM), ceramide (Cer), diacylglycerol (DG), and triacylglycerol (TG). By summarizing the fragmentation principles of many lipid isomers in the positive ion EIEIO spectra, three index libraries were generated to realize the annotation of lipid structure. 
## Details of The Annotation Tool
There are six sequential steps in the annotation tool: 1) extracting MS information, 2) classifying lipids, 3) aligning sum composition, 4) determining _sn_-positions, 5) locating C=C positions, and 6) ascertaining annotation levels. More details about this tool can be found in our article. 
# User Guide 
This tool supports the mzML file format of the LC-MS raw data and only need to run the _summary.py_ to get the final output file after downloading this folder.For the traceability of the identification results, the temporary results obtained in each step were saved. Therefore, in order to simplify the operation, the six steps were integrated and run in the _summary.py_ script.
Notably, if a parent ion can match the theoretical parent ions of plasmalogen and alkyl lipids at the same time in step 3, the results of these two matches would be saved separately. That means when the final output table has the same parent ion and retention time of plasmalogen and alkyl lipids, it means that it was annotated from the same EIEIO spectra. Therefore, we suggest that a follow-up analysis based on the higher annotation level given in this work or a manual check would be better.
